---
layout: post
title:  "Habits & Acceptance"
date:   2017-07-18 22:00:00
categories: [journal]
---

I am constantly attempting to set up new habits. I found the following intriguing because it unified the notion of habits and the notion of self. I have always viewed my habits as external things, there is me and then then there are my habits. Habits are something external to me. "I am attempting to practice the guitar every day." "I am attempting to give up dessert every meal." I view habits as something outside of myself; something I do with willpower.

It is a powerful shift in perception to consider that you are a collection of habits. That the emergent notion of you is a complex interweaving of habits; some so fundamental that you have "subsumed" them into your definition of self. 

I find it comforting to consider that all reactions to the world are just a matter of habits. Skills are habits that help you react properly to the world. Addictions are habits that have become too ingrained and lack nuance. All problems can be tackled by thinking of them as habits that need to be internalized (or broken) to allow you to get to your desired outcome. 

<div class="videos">
<div class="video">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/FtMm88p3Tjk" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
</div>

The other interesting video is as a critic of the notion of "Acceptance". Acceptance (as defined in American popular culture) involves conditioning yourself to be comfortable with your life. At some level this is a very dangerous idea. Acceptance is a process of conditioning yourself to be comfortable with your current habits. 

<div class="videos">
<div class="video">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/i3-dxHavRe8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
</div>
